[UKSC logo on black background]
[Introductory titles and count-down clock.]
[Change of scene: Courtroom, those present stand as Justices enter the room.]
[As Justices take their seats all others take theirs. Usher makes indistinct statement of case details.]
Yes, Mr Moore.
My Lords, I appear on behalf of uh, the appellant
I'll refer to simply as 'A'.
Along with Mr Vasal Adams
My learned friends: Mr Jonathan Crow...
Mr Jason Copel
appear for the respondent,
and my learned friends: Lord Panic and Mr Higgin
uh, appear on behalf of justice
as an intervener in this appeal.
Lords, this is an appeal against a decision of the court of appeal
of the 18th of February of this year,
that the Administrative Court has no jurisdiction
to hear proceedings brought by 'A' against the respondent
pursuant to Section 7-1A of the Human Rights Act.
A is a former member of the security service
and R is the director of establishments of security service.
A has brought judicial review proceedings challenging
R's respondent's refusal to authorise publication of a book
he's written about his time in the service
which he strongly believes should be published in the public interest.
Without the authority from the respondents
A's obligation of confidentiality bites, and he cannot publish.
Lords, the jurisdiction issue arises because...
in addition to challenging on traditional public law grounds
of irrationality and bias
A raised the claim that, the respondent's refusal of permission
was unlawful in the sense identified in Section 6.1
of the Human Rights Act 1998
i.e. that the respondent as a public authority in refusing authority
to publish, had acted in a way incompatible
with A's conventional right to freedom of expression
under Article 10 of the European Convention.